1.The Control Panel is a component of Microsoft Windows that provides the ability to view and change system settings. It consists of a set of applets that include adding or removing hardware and software, controlling user accounts, changing accessibility options, and accessing networking settings. Additional applets are provided by third parties, such as audio and video drivers, VPN tools, input devices, and networking tools.

2.Control Panel is the centralized configuration area in Windows. It's used to make changes to nearly every aspect of the operating system.

This includes keyboard and mouse function, passwords and users, network settings, power management, desktop backgrounds, sounds, hardware, program installation and removal, speech recognition, parental control, etc.

Think of Control Panel as the place to go in Windows if you want to change something about how it looks or works.

3.Here are a few of the thousands of individual changes that are possible from within Control Panel:

Change Your Password
Change Another User's Password
Change AutoPlay Settings
Create a Password for Your Account
Adjust the Date and Time
Remove Your Password
Setup Windows Backup
Start Device Manager
Change Internet Explorer Settings
Configure Regional and Language Settings
Configure Text to Speech and Speech Recognition Settings
Install Windows Updates
Change Network Settings
Adjust Color Quality
Adjust Screen Resolution
Change Your Monitor's Refresh Rate
Adjust Keyboard and Mouse Settings
See the Windows Service Pack You Have Installed
Create a Password Reset Disk
Change Background, Screensaver, and Windows Sounds Settings
Show Hidden Files
Add a Printer
Configure the Start Menu and Taskbar
Configure Windows Firewall Settings
Hide Hidden Files
Change Your Product Key
Manage Windows Gadgets
See If You're Running a 32-bit or 64-bit Version of Windows
Change the Default Program for a File Extension
Disable Error Reporting
Reinstall a Program


Click This Category Link . . .		. . . To Display These Groups of Links
System and Security			Action Center, Windows Firewall, System, Windows Update, Power
				Options, Backup and Restore, BitLocker Drive Encryption, and
				Administrative Tools
User Accounts			User Accounts, Windows Cardspace, Credential Manager, and Mail
				(32-bit)
Network and Internet			Network and Sharing Center, Homegroup, and Internet
				Options
Appearance and Personalization		Personalization, Display, Desktop Gadgets, Taskbar and Start
				Menu, Ease of Access Center, Folder Options, and Fonts
Hardware and Sound			Devices and Printers, AutoPlay, Sound, Power Options, Display,
				and Windows Mobility Center
Clock, Language, and Region		Date and Time, and Region and Language
Programs				Programs and Features, Default Programs, and Desktop
				Gadgets
Ease of Access			Ease of Access Center and Speech Recognition